[do not merge] Versions, Deployments, Gradual Deployments (#13429)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/wrangler/commands.md

wrangler whoami
```

---
## `versions`
{{<Aside type="note">}}
Versions are currently in closed beta. Report deployments bugs in [GitHub](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/issues/new/choose).
{{</Aside>}}

{{<Aside type="note">}}

The `--experimental-versions` flag is required to use the commands below. You may use the shorthand `--x-versions` flag in place of `--experimental-versions` anywhere it is mentioned.

> The minimum required wrangler version to use these commands is 3.39.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need Wrangler version 3.36.0 or greater to use gradual deployments. Refer to [Install/Update Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/) for more information.
```
Is it 3.36 or 3.39? It says two different things in this PR? @tanushreesharma-cf

Reviewer 2: 3.40.0

### `upload`
Upload a new [version](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#versions) of your Worker that is not deployed immediately.

```txt
wrangler versions upload [OPTIONS] --experimental-versions
```

{{<definitions>}}
- `--tag` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - Add a version tag. Accepts empty string.
- `--message` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - Add a version message. Accepts empty string.
- `--name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - Perform on a specific Worker rather than inheriting from `wrangler.toml`.
    {{</definitions>}}

### `deploy`
Follow an interactive prompt and deploy a previously created [version](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#versions) of your Worker all at once or create a [gradual deployment](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/gradual-deployments/) to incrementally shift traffic to a new version.

```txt
wrangler versions deploy [OPTIONS] --experimental-versions
```

{{<definitions>}}

> - `--name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

Reviewer: need --experimental-version here as required

  - Perform on a specific Worker rather than inheriting from `wrangler.toml`.
    {{</definitions>}}

### `list`

> Retrieve details for the 10 most recent versions. Details include `Version ID`, `Created on`, `Author`, `Source` and optional `Tag` or `Message`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieve details for the 10 most recent versions. Details include `Version ID`, `Created on`, `Author`, `Source`, and optionally, `Tag` or `Message`.
```

```txt
wrangler versions list [OPTIONS] --experimental-versions
```
{{<definitions>}}

> - `--name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

Reviewer: need --experimental-version here as required

  - Perform on a specific Worker rather than inheriting from `wrangler.toml`.
    {{</definitions>}}

> Example output:

Reviewer: Advising against putting CLI outputs in docs. These change a lot because of eng team updates and customer will be confused if output is different. I removed all these from this page recently.

```sh
Version ID:  a6921e02-4b79-4e2b-bb83-2f5b89f9a25d
Created:     2024-03-19T22:23:02.528Z
Author:      example@cloudflare.com
Source:      Wrangler 🤠
Tag:         1.0.3
Message:     Bug fixes

Version ID:  2ae44686-4e5e-46e5-ace0-af1b74d4bb44
Created:     2024-03-13T16:03:27.146Z
Author:      example@cloudflare.com
Source:      Dashboard 🖥️
Tag:         1.0.2
Message:     Updated CPU Limit

Version ID:  b8959f7b-a3d6-466c-bef0-4e07227da015
Created:     2024-03-13T15:57:54.627Z
Author:      example@cloudflare.com
Source:      Wrangler 🤠
Tag:         1.0.1
Message:     First upload
```

### `view`

> Retrieve details for the specified version. Details include `Version ID`, `Created`, `Author`, `Source`, and optional `Tag` or `Message`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieve details for the specified [version](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#versions). Details include `Version ID`, `Created`, `Author`, `Source`, and optionally, `Tag` or `Message`.
```

```txt
wrangler versions view <VERSION_ID> [OPTIONS] --experimental-versions
```
{{<definitions>}}

> - `VERSION_ID` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

Reviewer: need `--experimental-version` here as required

  - The ID of the version you wish to view.
- `--name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - Perform on a specific Worker rather than inheriting from `wrangler.toml`.
    {{</definitions>}}

Example output:

> ```sh

Reviewer: same comment

Source:      Wrangler 🤠
Tag:         1.0.1
Message:     Bug fixes
```
---

## `deployments`

Deployments track the version(s) of your Worker that are actively serving traffic. For more information about deployments and how they work, refer to [Deployments](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#deployments).

{{<Aside type="note">}}
Deployments are currently in beta. Report deployments bugs in [GitHub](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/issues/new/choose).
{{</Aside>}}
### `view` <deployment-id>

Retrieve details for the specified deployment, or the latest if no ID is provided. Details include `Deployment ID`, `Author`, `Source`, `Created on`, and bindings. Where applicable, details also include rollback information and a `Message` if one was provided on rollback.

```txt
wrangler deployments view [<DEPLOYMENT_ID>]
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `DEPLOYMENT_ID` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - The ID of the deployment you wish to view.
- `--name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - Perform on a specific Worker rather than inheriting from `wrangler.toml`.
    {{</definitions>}}

> Example output:

Reviewer: same comment about output

```

---
## `versions`
{{<Aside type="note">}}
Versions are currently in closed beta. Report deployments bugs in [GitHub](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/issues/new/choose).
{{</Aside>}}

For more information about versions and how they work, refer to [Versions](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#versions).

### `upload`

> Uploads a new [version](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#versions) of your Worker that is not deployed immediately,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Upload a new [version](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#versions) of your Worker that is not deployed immediately.
```

```

---
## `versions`
{{<Aside type="note">}}
Versions are currently in closed beta. Report deployments bugs in [GitHub](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/issues/new/choose).
{{</Aside>}}

{{<Aside type="note">}}

The `--experimental-versions` flag is required to use the commands below. You may use the shorthand `--x-versions` flag in place of `--experimental-versions` anywhere it is mentioned.

The minimum required wrangler version to use these commands is 3.36.0.

{{</Aside>}}

For more information about versions and how they work, refer to [Versions](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#versions).

> ### `upload`

Reviewer 4: I think the 10 version limit should be addressed here, assuming this action is where the max is enforced.

Why is there a limit of 10? Are there plans to increase it? If you already have 10 and upload another, which is removed? The oldest version not part of an active deployment? All these questions would be useful information for me.

Upload a new [version](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#versions) of your Worker that is not deployed immediately.

```txt
wrangler versions upload [OPTIONS] --experimental-versions
```

{{<definitions>}}
- `--tag` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - Add a version tag. Accepts empty string.
- `--message` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - Add a version message. Accepts empty string.
- `--name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - Perform on a specific Worker rather than inheriting from `wrangler.toml`.
    {{</definitions>}}

### `deploy`

> Follow an interactive prompt and deploy a previously created [version](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#versions) of your Worker all at once or create a [gradual deployment](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/gradual-deployments/) to incrementally shift traffic to a new version.

Reviewer 4: This may not make sense because I haven't seen what the prompt is, but is there a way to do this non interactively? Seems like it would be useful if there isn't

Author: We have a non-interactive version. I'll add to the wrangler section and link out to it.

Created:     2024-03-13T16:03:27.146Z
Author:      example@cloudflare.com
Source:      Dashboard 🖥️
Tag:         1.0.2
Message:     Updated CPU Limit

Version ID:  b8959f7b-a3d6-466c-bef0-4e07227da015
Created:     2024-03-13T15:57:54.627Z
Author:      example@cloudflare.com
Source:      Wrangler 🤠
Tag:         1.0.1
Message:     First upload
```

### `view`

Retrieve details for the specified version. Details include `Version ID`, `Created`, `Author`, `Source`, and optional `Tag` or `Message`.

```txt
wrangler versions view <VERSION_ID> [OPTIONS] --experimental-gradual-rollouts
```
{{<definitions>}}

- `VERSION_ID` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - The ID of the version you wish to view.
- `--name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - Perform on a specific Worker rather than inheriting from `wrangler.toml`.
    {{</definitions>}}

Example output:

```sh
Version ID:  a6921e02-4b79-4e2b-bb83-2f5b89f9a25d
Created:     2024-03-19T22:23:02.528Z
Author:      example@cloudflare.com
Source:      Wrangler 🤠
Tag:         1.0.1
Message:     Bug fixes
```
---

## `deployments`

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> Deployments are currently in  beta. Report deployments bugs in [GitHub](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/issues/new/choose).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Deployments are currently in beta. Report deployments bugs in [GitHub](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/issues/new/choose).
```

  - Required for `wrangler versions` commands. Can be replaced with `--x-versions`.
- `VERSION_ID` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - The ID of the version you wish to view.
- `--name` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - Perform on a specific Worker rather than inheriting from `wrangler.toml`.

{{</definitions>}}

---

## `deployments`

[Deployments](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#deployments) track the version(s) of your Worker that are actively serving traffic.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Deployments are currently in beta. Report bugs in [GitHub](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/issues/new/choose).

{{</Aside>}}
### `view`

Retrieve details for the specified [deployment](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#deployments), or the latest if no ID is provided. Details include `Deployment ID`, `Author`, `Source`, `Created on`, and bindings. Where applicable, details also include rollback information and a `Message` if one was provided on a [rollback](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/rollbacks/).

```txt

> wrangler deployments view [OPTIONS]

Reviewer 2: This command does not exist anymore with `--x-versions`. Without `--x-versions` the old behaviour remains

Rollback is currently in open beta. Report rollback bugs in [GitHub](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/issues/new/choose).
{{</Aside>}}

> Rollback to a specified [version](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#versions) by ID, or to the previous version if no ID is provided. The command will prompt you for confirmation of the rollback. On confirmation, you will be prompted to provide an optional rollback message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Rollback](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/rollbacks/) to a specified [version](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#versions) by ID, or to the previous version if no ID is provided. The command will prompt you for confirmation of the rollback. On confirmation, you will be prompted to provide an optional rollback message.
```

Author:         example@cloudflare.com
Source:         Wrangler
🟩 Active

> NOTE: "Deployment ID" in this output will be changed to "Version ID" in a future version of Wrangler. To learn more visit: https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<Aside type="note">}}

`Deployment ID` will be changed to `Version ID` in a future version of Wrangler. To learn more, refer to [Versions & deployments](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments).

{{</Aside>}}
```

```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

The `--experimental-versions` flag is required to use the new commands below. You may use the shorthand `--x-versions` flag in place of `--experimental-versions` anywhere it is mentioned.

> The minimum required wrangler version to use these commands is 3.39.0. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need Wrangler version 3.36.0 or greater to use gradual deployments. Refer to [Install/Update Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/) for more information.
```
it says 3.36 and 3.39 in these docs, which one is correct @tanushreesharma-cf ?

Reviewer 2: 3.40.0

Rollback is currently in open beta. Report rollback bugs in [GitHub](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/issues/new/choose).
{{</Aside>}}

[Rollback](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/rollbacks/) to a specified [version](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/#versions) by ID, or to the previous version if no ID is provided. The command will prompt you for confirmation of the rollback. On confirmation, you will be prompted to provide an optional rollback message.

There are limitations on what deployments you can rollback to. Refer to [rollbacks documentation](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/rollbacks/) for more information.

{{<Aside type="warning">}}
A rollback will immediately create a new deployment with the version specified and become the active deployment across all your deployed routes and domains. This change will not affect work in your local development environment.
{{</Aside>}}

### `rollback`

```txt
wrangler rollback [<DEPLOYMENT_ID>] [OPTIONS]
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `DEPLOYMENT_ID` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The ID of the deployment you wish to rollback to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The ID of the deployment you wish to roll back to.
```
